Project Brief : Payroll and HR Management System

A Fintech company that is developing a Digital Financial Platform designed for businesses and their workforce in Africa is partnering with Umurava to run a Skills Challenge for Product Design. This Fintech Company offers Payroll Management System to Employers and Embedded Financial services and products to Employees and Gig Workers across Africa.
Tasks: 
Product Requirements:
UX research to understand Project Requirements 
Understanding User Needs
Understanding Business Goals 
Determine interaction between users 
Requirements Catalog

Product Design:
User Interface Design for each step 
Creating wireframes to outline the basic structure and layout of the web and mobile app.
Designing visually appealing and user-friendly interfaces for the web and mobile apps focusing on usability and user experience.
Ensuring the web application works seamlessly across web, mobile, and tablet devices.
Provide a feedback session for in-development guidance

Deliverables

Requirements Catalog and User Interaction Diagram
User Interface Mockups 
Payroll and HR System Design Completed
Documentation 

The Product Designer will provide all documents and deliverables to the client before the review meetings
NOTE: 
Find Product Requirements Summary and Features Description for Saway Pay
-----------------------------------

Sawa Pay Features/Modules 


Sawa Pay  Payroll



Features/Modules:

Onboarding (Employee & Contractor Registration):
Employee Profiles: Store personal information, job titles, department, and bank details. all info to be considered in employee profile are :First Name	Second Name	Email	Phone Contact	Employee ID	National ID/Passport	Start Date	Department	Job Tittle	Currency	Monthly Gross	Bank Name	Account Number/IBAN	SWIFT Code	Domicile	Wallet Address										
Button 1: Single Employee Onboarding to click and access the onboarding form
Button 2: Multiple Employee onboarding… two options: to download our google sheet & excel template for importing multiple employees or access onboarding form for registration. 

Employee Management (Employees):
Employee Profiles: Store personal information, job titles, department, and bank details.  all info to be considered in employee profile are First Name	Second Name	Email	Phone Contact	Employee ID	National ID/Passport	Start Date	Department	Job Tittle	Currency	Monthly Gross	Bank Name	Account Number/IBAN	SWIFT Code	Domicile	Wallet Address										
Tax Information: Collect and manage tax details, including tax forms information. 
Benefits Management: Track and manage employee benefits such as health insurance, retirement plans, and other perks.
Functionalities (

View Employees: A user should be able to get a form that collects all information needed from an employee and once the user finishes to fill out the form, the employee should be added to the table. 
Invite Employees: Add, edit, and delete employee profiles. There might be a form to fill out when adding employees and there should be a table for employee profiles so that when a user needs to edit and delete employees, it is enabled. 
Department: A user should be able to see department name, total employees in the department, and department lead. The department should be presented in the table format. There should be a button to view the department members. There should also be the button for deleting and editing department names. 

Contractor Management (Contractors)
Contractor Profiles: Store personal information, contract terms, and payment details
Invoice Management: Allow contractors to submit invoices for work completed 
Contract Terms Tracking: Monitor contract start/end dates, payment rates, and deliverables
Tax Information: Collect and manage contractor tax details
Payroll Processing
Automated Payroll Calculations: Calculate gross pay, deductions, taxes, and net pay. This has to be shown in a table 
Pay Schedules: Support multiple pay schedules (Weekly, bi-weekly, monthly).
Direct Deposit: Facilitate direct deposit payments to employee and contractor bank accounts.
Payroll History 
Payroll Adjustements: Handle adjustements for bonuses, overtime, deductions, and reimbursements.
Payslip Generation
Payroll Approval
Deductions
Expense reimbursement
Bonuses 
Off-cycle payments: Manage off-cycle payroll runs for special payments or corrections.
Define pay schedules (weekly, bi-weekly, monthly).
Manage various pay types (salary, hourly, commissions, bonuses, )
Automate tax calculations 
Generate paystubs with detailed breakdown of earnings  and deductions
Facilitate direct deposit and paper check options
Reporting & Analytics:
Generate payroll reports (by employee/contract, pay period like months and year, etc)
Track payroll costs and liabilities 
Access tax reports for filling purposes 
Dashboard:
Total Employees 
Total Contractors
Payroll History: Salary, Taxes, Benefits, Pensions) (This Year, Last Year, Last Month, This Month, Last 3 Months, Last 6 Months, Last 12 Months)
Payroll Summary: Total Salaries Processed, (Payment, Paid, Pending), Upcoming Payroll, Previous Payroll, PayDay 
Recent payroll: Employee Name-Role, Salary, Status 
Company Account (Employer Profile):
Company Name
Name of Company Admin
Email of Company Admin
Country
City
Company Industry
Manage Admins 
Company Pension Code
Date Joined 


Option Features: The No 8 and 9 Are Optional 

Self-Service Portal: 
Employee Access: Allow employees to view pay stubs, tax documents, and benefits information.
Contractor Access: Allow contractors to view payment history, submit invoices, and update tax information
Document Management: Provide access to important payroll documents and forms. 

Time & Attendance 
Allow employees to submit timesheets (manual entry or integration)
Track regular hours, overtime, and paid time off
Manage leave requests and accruals 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Onboarding_Employee profiles_sawa pay
First Name	Second Name	Email	Phone Contact	Employee ID	National ID/Passport	Start Date	Department	Job Tittle	Currency	Monthly Gross	Bank Name	Account Number/IBAN	SWIFT Code	Domicile	Wallet Address										

First Name	Second Name	Email	Phone Contact	Employee ID	National ID/Passport	Start Date	Department	Job Tittle	Currency	Monthly Gross	Bank Name	Account Number/IBAN	SWIFT Code	Domicile	Wallet Address										